# FAKE-NEWS-DETECTION-USING-MACHINE-LEARNING-METHODS
A model that can classify fake and real news from the subtle yet consistent differences in the language of the two classes of articles based on available data set.

# 1. INTRODUCTION
In recent years, due to the booming development of online social networks, fake news for various commercial and political purposes has been appearing in large numbers and widespread in the online world. With deceptive words, online social network users can get infected by this online fake news easily, which has brought about tremendous effects on the offline society already. How much of what we read on social media and on supposedly “credible” news sites is trustworthy? It is extremely easy for anyone to post what they desire and although that can be acceptable, there is the notion of taking it a step too far, such as posting false information online in order to cause a panic, using lies to manipulate another person’s decision, or essentially anything else that can have lasting repercussions. An important goal in improving the trustworthiness of information in online social networks is to identify the fake news timely. During the 2016 US president election, various kinds of fake news about the candidates widely spread in the online social networks, which may have a significant effect on the election results. According to a post-election statistical report, online social networks account for more than 41.8% of the fake news data traffic in the election, which is much greater than the data traffic shares of both traditional TV/radio/print medium and online search engines respectively. Besides detecting fake news articles, identifying the fake news creators and subjects will actually be more important, which will help completely eradicate a large number of fake news from the origins in online social networks.

Fake news can be studied with respect to four perspectives: (i) knowledge-based, focusing on the false knowledge in fake news; (ii) style-based, concerned with how fake news is written; (iii) propagation-based, focused on how fake news spreads, and; (iv) credibility-based, investigating the credibility of its creators and spreaders. Each perspective targets some of fake news characteristics (i.e., its authenticity, intentions, or whether it is news) by using some types of information (news-related or social-related) using different techniques. The idea of fake news is not a novel concept. Notably, the idea has been in existence even before the emergence of the Internet as publishers used false and misleading information to further their interests. Following the advent of the web, more and more consumers began forsaking the traditional media channels used to disseminate information for online platforms. The potential way to know about the authenticity of news depends upon preciously published truthful and deceptive news. Now days, the biggest platform to spread the fake news is social media. People even before analyzing the truthfulness of news forward it further which may be result in unwanted riots and violence. At best, tech companies such as Google, Facebook and Twitter have attempted to address this particular concern. However, these efforts have hardly contributed towards solving the problem as the organizations have resorted to denying the individuals associated with such sites the revenue that they would have realized from the increased traffic. Users, on the other hand, continue to deal with sites containing false information and whose involvement tends to affect the reader’s ability to engage with actual news.

# 2. PROBLEM DEFINATION
The problem statement revolves around implementing a system which would proactively measure the truthfulness of the news content that is published in the social media. The necessity of the system is to truncate the rapid spread of the falsified information that pose a threat to social media as a platform. In this project, system is striving to leverage auxiliary information available in social media to classify the news content. The main factors that are involved in the social media news ecosystem are the news articles and the users (publishers, readers etc). So our main goal is to develop an efficient system using machine learning techniques to detect the fake news from any conventional datasets.
